Initial draft of a Security Working Group governance (#1)
ros-security/community: README.md

* Test coverage must be greater than 50%
* The ROS 2 standard linter set must be enabled and adhered to
* Builds must have 0 warnings

## Governance
These guidelines are designed exclusively to help the Working Group achieve its mission, but are subject to change should they become cumbersome or ineffective.

### Meetings
* The working group typically meets on the last Tuesday of each month, at alternating times to accomodate our community's varied timezones
* Meetings are announced and an agenda created on the ROS Discourse using the [wg-security tag](https://discourse.ros.org/tags/wg-security)
* Meeting notes are kept on the [ROS Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS2/WorkingGroups/Security)
* Meetings are recorded and available [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpUh4ScdBhSMaEekJ8xeAAGmWUgR9S1K_)

### Communication channel
The Security Working Group has a few communication channels:
* ROS Discourse using the [wg-security tag](https://discourse.ros.org/tags/wg-security)
* Chat using a [Matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/!LcRLnAIRWjSCfZmMeD:matrix.org?via=matrix.org)

### Roles
Security Working Group members may act in one or more of the following roles:
* __Member__

>   * Attend a majority of the Security Working Group meetings

Reviewer: If meeting alternate between timezones, it may be challenging for members of the timezones covered only every other meeting to meet the "majority of meetings" criterium

Reviewer 2: +1 for this. As we rotate the time, it should be reasonable that only timelines within a somewhat professional time-range are accounted for.

AFAIK, this is somehow the policy that Open Robotics is using for the ROS 2 TSC.

Reviewer 3: That's fair, we could adjust the rotation a bit. The TSC says you can miss up to three meetings in a row, I think. We could move to something like that. I do think it's important for members to be limited to folks who are coming to meetings consistently, otherwise it's difficult to work as a team. Remember that non-members can still participate; membership comes with responsibility, and I think it's best if we avoid relying on folks we can never talk to.

Reviewer: > The TSC says you can miss up to three meetings in a row, I think. We could move to something like that.

That seems fair. On a round robin rotation you would expect that 2 out of 3 meeting can be attended by members regardless of their timezone.

Reviewer 3: Alright, updated.

  * Responsible for triaging issues
* __Reviewer__
  * All reviewers are members

>   * Responsible for reviewing pull requests

Reviewer: It appears that both members and reviewers (actually anyone) can comment and review a PR on Github.
So my understanding is that reviewers have a responsibility / obligation to review PRs while member do not *have* to do it.

What would the workflow be in this context?
Users open PR
 - member triages it and assigns a reviewer 
   - reviewer iterates with contributor, once satisfied it assigns an approver to the PR
        - the approver iterates with contributor and once satisfied merges the PR

Reviewer 3: You're right, anyone can make or review a PR, or triage an issue; this is about responsibilities in the team more than about capabilities. If you're a member, you're responsible for helping to triage. If you're a reviewer, you're also responsible for reviewing. If you're an approver, you're also responsible for agreeing for the WG to take on new responsibilities (whether that's by approving a PR or by accepting new projects). To be clear, these build on each other-- approvers should also be working to triage, for example.

The workflow can be what you outlined, but it could be as simple as:

- PR is opened
  - Approver reviews and iterates until satisfied, and approves

I recommend some sanity checks, like ensuring there are two approvals before merging (and I'd say reviewer's approval counts), but that's a little out of scope here, and different repos might do it slightly differently.

# ROS 2 Security Working Group

> The Security Working Group's mission is to advocate for and implement security features within ROS 2.  The working group negotiates a balance between the benefits of security and the enablement of technology, striving for a secure-by-default design which can be customized to suit a targeted security profile.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Security Working Group's mission is to advocate for and implement security within ROS 2.  The working group negotiates a balance between the benefits of security and the enablement of technology, striving for a secure-by-default design which can be customized to suit a targeted security profile.
```
or
```suggestion
The Security Working Group's mission is to advocate for and implement security features and tools within ROS 2.  The working group negotiates a balance between the benefits of security and the enablement of technology, striving for a secure-by-default design which can be customized to suit a targeted security profile.
```

Reviewer 3: I think "security features" covers pretty much everything, including tools, when you're talking at the level of ROS 2 as a whole.

> This document outlines the governance of the ROS 2 Security Working Group.  Updates to this document will be handled in the same manner as other project updates governed by the Working Group.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This document outlines the governance of the ROS 2 Security Working Group.
Updates to this document will be handled in the same manner as other project updates governed by the Working Group.
```

Reviewer 3: Removed all double-spacing after periods. They don't render in md anyway.

## Subprojects

> A significant portion of the Security Working Group's mission is achieved by maintaining ROS subprojects.  The following subprojects are owned by this Working Group:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A significant portion of the Security Working Group's mission is achieved by maintaining ROS subprojects. 
The following subprojects are owned by this Working Group:
```

Reviewer 3: Removed all double-spacing after periods as they don't render in md anyway.

 * _TBD:  list project names and team leads_

### Out of Scope
Although the following ROS subprojects have links to security, they are not governed by the Security Working Group:
 * _TBD_

> ### Adding and Maintaining Subprojects

Reviewer 3: I think this should be split out. I like the tooling WG's use of issue templates for adding new projects.

Reviewer 3: Added template.

Subprojects must meet the following criteria:
* An Approver can add or create a new subproject that will be maintained by this working group.
* A Member should introduce new subprojects at the next Security Working Group meeting
* Builds must pass against ROS2 master
* The ROS2 standard linter set must be enabled and adhered to
* Builds must have 0 warnings
* Quality builds must be green (address sanitizer, thread sanitizer, clang thread safety analysis)
* Test suite must pass
* Reasonable* code coverage must be met by test suites
* Issues must be responded to promptly*
* Releases must go out regularly* when bugfixes or new features are introduced

_*-Precise definition of term not determined_

> ## Vulnerability Handling

Reviewer 3: I think it's a little early for this, yet. We still need to come up with the disclosure policy, then we need to have a conversation with OR about our internal process. Let's remove this section for now to reflect the current status.

Reviewer: While the rules are not yet fleshed out, it seems that this is one of the main missions of the working group. I would be in favor of keeping this section with a note "TBD of "Subject to changes" (similar to the list of project) rather than not having it mentionned at all in the readme

Reviewer 3: I actually disagree. The primary responsibility of this WG is to drive the development of security features and best practices in ROS 2, not handle vuln reports. I honestly don't think the security WG should be handling this stuff, or we won't be able to leave membership nearly as open as I think we want it. It should actually be a separate group of engineers, both from the WG and from OR, and the mailing list should be maintained by OR, not this WG as a whole.

Could that actually be a subgroup of this WG? Perhaps a different member class? Yeah perhaps so, but I don't see any reason that the folks handling vuln reports also need to participate in new security features, so there's a bit of a disconnect there.

Long story short, I think we need to talk to OR before we propose or assume anything here.

Reviewer: Fair enough, I think there was some misunderstanding from my side when reading the PR description

> The two primary jobs of the WG are to maintain subprojects and to handle all ROS vulnerabilities (both ROS1 and ROS2).

I now see that this PR clearly states a different mission statement (ROS 2 focused and not mentioning vulnerabilities):

> The Security Working Group's mission is to advocate for and implement security features within ROS 2. The working group negotiates a balance between the benefits of security and the enablement of technology, striving for a secure-by-default design which can be customized to suit a targeted security profile.

In which case no need to include the paragraph about vulnerability handling in here :+1: (and fully ROS 2 focused)

> Long story short, I think we need to talk to OR before we propose or assume anything here.

Yeah it may be beneficial to clarify with OR and working group members what the stance is on security vulnerabilities before advertising this as it may impact both user expectations (as a user I may assume that the security group/team is in charge of security patches) and membership interest

The Security Working Group is responsible for handling vulnerability reports filed against ROS.  Until a more comprehensive vulnerability handling program is established, the Working Group will perform the following:
* Maintain a publicly accessible email address for securely reporting vulnerability details.
* A Reviewer will triage reported vulnerabilities within a reasonable time and assign the vulnerability to a work queue
* As part of the triage, the reviewer will propose a [CVSS Base Score](https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3.1) for the vulnerability
* For high risk vulnerabilities (CVSS score 9.0 and above), the Reivewer will track remediation progress.
* For high risk vulnerabilities, the Working Group Moderator will work with the broader ROS community to communicate when the patch is released and the potential impact.

## Governance

> This guidelines are designed exclusively to help the Working Group achieve its mission, but are subject to change should they become cumbersome or ineffective.

Reviewer 4: I'd dislike the idea of discarding rules because they are cumbersome. I mean isn't it part of the point of a rule?
How about,
```suggestion
This guidelines are designed exclusively to help the Working Group achieve its mission, but are subject to change should they require to be actualized.
```

Reviewer 3: It's not about discarding them if people don't like them, it's about maintaining flexibility. We're starting with a pretty light touch, but if we learn that the existing rules don't work, we should change them.

> ### Meetings

Reviewer 4: I feel like a `Communication channel` section is missing. At least the Matrix channel should be mentioned somewhere nop?

Reviewer 3: Yes indeed, good catch. Added it.

>  * The working group typically meets on the second week of each month

Reviewer 3: It's actually the last Tuesday of each month, but we've had to reschedule it each time as that had been a holiday the last few months :stuck_out_tongue: .

 * Meetings are announced on discourse.ros.org using the [wg-security tag](https://discourse.ros.org/tags/wg-security)

>  * Meeting notes are kept on the [ROS Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS2/WorkingGroups/Security)

Reviewer 3: Need to add: "Meetings are recorded and available [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpUh4ScdBhSMaEekJ8xeAAGmWUgR9S1K_)"

> ### Roles

Reviewer 3: Again taking from the tooling WG, let's make becoming a member/changing roles happen via issue templates.

Reviewer 3: Added template and blurb.

Security Working Group members may act in one or more of the following roles:
* __Contributor__:  A person contributing code to the Security Working Group subprojects
  * Timely response to comments.
  * Contribute code to one or more subprojects.

>   * Contributors do not need to particpate in the Working Group beyond contributing code.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this needs to be defined. These are just non-members.

> * __Member__:  A participant in Security Working Group discussions.  Responsiblities include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* __Member__:  A participant in Security Working Group discussions. Responsiblities include:
```

  * Attending a majority of the Security Working Group meetings

>   * New members should be recognized at the next Security Working Group meeting

Reviewer 3: Members have issue triage privs.

* __Reviewer__:  Responsible for reviewing pull requests
  * Review and comment on pull requests

>   * Triage vulnerability reports

Reviewer 3: Similar to above, let's remove this for now.

* __Approver__:  Responsible for approving pull requests
  * All approvers are also reviewers

>   * Approvers can add members to the Working Group

Reviewer 3: I think you need to be an admin to do that, so this responsibility will lie with the WG chair/group admin(s).

>   * Only approvers can create pull requests

Reviewer 3: Anyone can create a pull request, but only approvers can MERGE them.

* __Moderator__:  Responsible for facilitating the governance structure.
  * Granting and removing access
  * Schedule Working Group meetings
  * Ensure someone from the Security WG attends the ROS TSG

>   * Although a single person normally acts as Moderator, at least one alternate individual must be assigned Moderator rights.

Reviewer 3: This is another one that I don't think needs to be defined.

# ROS 2 Security Working Group
The Security Working Group's mission is to advocate for and implement security features within ROS 2.  The working group negotiates a balance between the benefits of security and the enablement of technology, striving for a secure-by-default design which can be customized to suit a targeted security profile.

This document outlines the governance of the ROS 2 Security Working Group.  Updates to this document will be handled in the same manner as other project updates governed by the Working Group.

## Subprojects
A significant portion of the Security Working Group's mission is achieved by maintaining ROS subprojects.  The following subprojects are owned by this Working Group:
 * _TBD:  list project names and team leads_

> ### Out of Scope

Reviewer 3: I don't find this section particularly useful, I say we drop it until it makes sense to add.
